First, I'm going to talk about the three introductions of the Guru Dragpo. Guru Dragpo is a shared
emanation of Guru Padmasambha.
Who is Guru Padmasambha as you discussed yesterday, as we talked many times, as you know, but again
, to glorify of the quality and important and preciousness of Guru Padmasambha is always reward,
always satisfied.
Because it's a stretch to our nature, to our qualities, our identity, our truth, our destination,
and our goal and our aim. Therefore, it's so important.
Why is Guru Padmasambha in absolute level? Guru Padmasambha is no other than our true nature, true
nature of our mind.
When I speak in truth, what that literally means? Truth means it's not saturated or polluted by the
dualities, not the habeit patterns.
It's not the duality, not the idea, conception, thinking, that true of our self.
True nature of our self is open as a building sky, free from the clothes, sky that which is free
from the sky, time that free from clothes, mist, dust, the building sky.
That nature, the sky like mind is the nature of the Guru Padmasambha.
Guru Padmasambha is not just a partiality, they designated things or objects. It is true quality of
the nature, the pervasive, the infinite, and the great openness, great freedom, and great emptiness
, the transcendent emptiness that allows all the beautiful qualities, beautiful varieties of what we
want.
We like to see, it's allowing that, that, that call, that openness.
That pervasive openness is the great nature of the Guru Padmasambha.
Absolute nature of the Guru Padmasambha will be not just as I said, divided, discriminations, and
partialities.
It is pervasive nature. That nature is your nature. That nature is my nature.
We have equally beautiful nature. That's why we are here in this world.
We are gathered here because of that beautiful nature. There's such aloneness, beautiful
opportunities that it allows.
That openness that is known as, in the Buddha's teaching, known as Dharmakaya is a great pervasive,
the true body, true qualities, foundation of everything, foundation and ground of everything.
That is what you all have. I have. We all have. How wonderful. How beautiful. That is the Absolute
Guru Padmasambha.
So today, we are going to connect it to that Guru Padmasambha, that Absolute Guru Padmasambha.
Having this Absolute Guru Padmasambha, now we are going to also alloy the other beautiful qualities
, not going to be restricted by the dualities.
We are going to alloy these beautiful qualities. The arising beautiful qualities openly,
predominantly, that is known as the poem displays, poem displays, displaying that we can go, we can
think something, think and feel something, touch something.
And that is known, as I said, poem bodies, poem kaiyas, or in a Sanskrit word, used as rupa kaiyas.
It's something that we can imagine. Even the myths of the dualities, myths of the conceptions,
myths of all these different kinds of, I didn't think, still we can feel that cause.
That call it is sign point of all the displays of everything what we go through and everything what
others go through.
And that is known as then, as first spirit is known as then. The sambhu kai, the very richness.
Sambhu kai, the Sanskrit word, means the very richness treasure, the poem.
Richness means it has everything. In the samsara what you are experiencing, what we experience now,
what we experience in the nirvana, all is come from that richness.
Our conception, our perceptions, our ideas, our thoughts, feelings, five aggregates, and beyond the
five aggregates, everything comes from this richness.
Therefore, it is known as sambhu kai in Sanskrit, in the Tibetan is known as lumkyu zoku. That
means every richness are complete.
We are talking something richness that suffer level and as well as gross levels.
Without that openness, richness, the variety of this what we are seeing, perceiving, or what we are
perceiving, is nothing going to happen.
That means there is aloiness of the richness behind our duality scenes.
There is a deep perform, richness is always open, always ready.
That richness is this time, we are going to highlight as great compassion, great wisdom, great
compassion and great wisdom.
That all commercials, every richness is now starting point as great compassion, great wisdom
combined together.
Wisdom is not right side and compassion is not left side. Both are both places.
Both are inseparable, compassion and wisdom. It perverts in nature as sun hits the light in the
morning in the sky.
That is the arising point of the great display, the active display.
Because when we see the great light in the blue sky, the clear way of all the darkness, the
building of light,
what we are going to see behind after 15 minutes or 20 minutes, the brilliant sun is coming.
That great light is light of love, light of compassion, light of wisdom.
This love and compassion wisdom is not Asiatic, not designated as I said, infinite, pervasive.
Our compassion, your compassion, your wisdom is pervasive to everywhere, without the borders of the
directions and without the borders of the times.
It's going beyond the time and the space and areas or places.
That is known as Sambokai, that richness, that pervasive, that massive calling of that.
That richness that this beautiful God is going to touch to every single living being, every being,
the whole universe, whole environment,
whole galaxy and whole cosmos become the mandala or the circle of compassion and wisdom, insepar
able.
How wonderful, how beautiful. When you think that, how beautiful, how special, how rewarding.
This nature I'm not talking outside Sambokai. This is your nature, this is my nature.
This is not just I'm talking, that's what the Buddha taught. That's what the Guru Pima Sambokai
taught.
That's what all those great monks taught and practiced and actualized.
That great pervasive nature of the perfect quality is the Sambokai quality of the Guru Pima Sambok
ai.
That is Sambokai. When you have the true love and a competing anniversary in your heart, without
the discrimination,
we are within the Sambokai state of the Guru Pima Sambokai, within the absolute state of the Guru P
ima Sambokai.
What it does, it will remove all the unnecessary emotions and habit pattern that is disturbing us
for lifetimes
and disturbing them to old others in lifetimes. It is truly, we are touching the treasure.
We are reverting the treasure. We open the treasure box. That is known as Sambokai of the Guru Pima
Sambokai.
Today we are going to revert that quality, that ignited quality of the richness of your Sambokai of
the Guru Pima Sambokai.
My Sambokai of the Guru Pima Sambokai. We are going to open the treasure box.
From that active energy of the sun, the brilliant sunlight in the sky, the union of the competitive
wisdom,
then the next power is coming. That is known as Nirmaka.
The emanation of poem, manifestation of poem, flexible poem, not restricted by the habit patterns,
as it needed. That is known as Nirmaka in Sanskrit word, in Tibet is known as Trupakur.
And I am translating that into English as emanation.
Emanation is not just one restricted, again, thing, few goals, few deeds in there.
Emanation is the emanation of the true love and compassion and wisdom, what we talk.
That actively now came in the poem that we can see by eye, by ear and by all, by our five senses.
Eye senses, ear senses, nose senses, tongue senses and body senses.
In the mind, feel the mind, by the mind. That is the active, powerful poem of union of compassion
and wisdom.
And that can be a very many different poems, as I said, without any restrictions.
This time we are going to see this active Guru Pima Sambokai, an emanation as then known as Bhema
Hill.
In the debate, he is known as Bhema Tham, or wrathful of lotus, wrathful of lotus.
When you think of wrathful lotus, that tells us how tenderness is behind.
Even though he is appeared as very peaceful, that which frightening, we are going to shatter,
we are going to alienate with our ego clinging to duality, but he is so tender, so gentle, so
soothing, so mellow.
So mellow as lotus, as lotus. That is the wrath of Guru Pima Sambokai.
Today we are going to see that mellow, that beauty, that calm and peaceful, that gentle, as
appeared as poem of wrath.
This wrath, why is it coming? There are many different reasons, I am going to talk those things
later.
Tomorrow in the day I pray we will have great opportunity to be together, discussing the teaching
of the Buddha and Guru Pima Sambokai, exploring our nature.
One after another, unfolding, we are going to discover, so I am going to talk those things.
But, principally, wrath purpose is true. Shattering, shuttling, right?
Shattering, shuttling of our duality, our ego clinging.
When you think of the ego clinging duality, how about that?
If we look to ourselves, ego clinging duality, we always like to see the ego's legs, the duality's
legs.
Not necessarily it is good for us, that we know.
Just like the ego's legs, the duality's legs, we do that even we know that it is not good.
In a way, we have put the blindfold in our eye, and jumping in the cliffs.
Today, we are shuttling that habit, that habit better.
This is what is known as wrath.
There is all the Buddha's image, and all the Buddhism of the Sambokai is the same purpose, same
things.
But why wrath? Because wrath is, often can anybody hear what you say?
It is, like us, when you have the treatment, when we go through the treatment, remove the disease,
or to take care of it.
First we go out, sometimes we help those spots.
We do the detoxification, and then we do some medicine, so all the things.
After the treatment is cured completely, then finally we go to the Surgeon General's office.
Surgeon General's office will first analyze everything, and then that Surgeon General, whether he
or she or he, is going to take care of our two stubbles.
So, this wrath is the Surgeon General's office, of true clarity, our wrath, stubborn, habit
preparedness, wrath, wrath and habit preparedness.
Therefore, this is so special.
This is one of the great methods of the Vedayana Teachings.
Vedayana teaching the esoteric Buddhism has richness of the skillful means that can apply to the
different aspects of our emotions and habit patterns, and cleansing, and the pore fire, and
transform, doesn't it?
That's known as Vedayana.
It's a diamond part.
It's a shortcut.
Diamond part is quicker, smooth, easy, but you have to call it locations.
You have to qualify it.
For example, you all know, when we go to the in a traffic light, or the traffic game, if there is a
diamond part, that, what's it called?
Diamond lines.
You have to be qualified.
You know that.
If you have to qualify, you can go smooth.
The head of every other, those jammed ones, those who are swept, swept, swept, swept, and all this
funny things going on.
But you're just riding, so nice and cool.
You become the cool guys, the cool girls.
Just the head of that, because you're qualified, you don't have to fear that they're going to
interrupt it and give the tickets.
Tickets.
You're qualified.
Similarly, Vedayana, when you have the qualifications, with the qualification of the Vedayana
practices, is courage and commitment, joy and devotion.
Devotions, when you have that, you are qualified.
We are qualified because it's our treasure.
Our richness will recapture our richness.
We are truly qualified because it's our aim, our inheritance.
Therefore, we are qualified.
That reason, that in that sense, or that understanding, then we are going to receive the
empowerment of the Gurutaka,
the wrath of emanation, or the Pemaheraka, or wrath of the Lord of Students.
That is there.